Hey, everybody.
Welcome to lecture 48, histograms.
So in this lecture we'll
be learning about how to
use data visualization
to create histograms.
This is gonna be the first lecture
in the data visualization section,
so we're gonna do quite
a few imports here.
First we're gonna do our standard imports.
So that's gonna include
import numpy as np.
Then we're gonna import pandas as pd.
And then we're also gonna need from
numpy.random import randn.
Okay, so we've got those imports,
then we always need some stats imports.
So I'm gonna say from scipy import stats.
And then we're also going to
need the plotting imports.
So I'm gonna import matplotlib as mpl.
We're gonna import
matplotlib.pyplot as plt.
And then we're gonna
import seaborn as sns and
that's the convention for seaborn.
And then finally,
we're going to give a command, matplotlib,
that we're going to pass inline.
And this %matplotlib inline, that allows
us to see our plots in IP[y]: Notebook.
And there we go.
So you can go ahead and
see there's in the link for
the IP[y]: Notebook viewer,
all these imports are in one cell.
So you can go ahead and
feel free to copy and paste that for
all the data visualization lectures.
I'll be doing that in the future.
All right, so first of all,
if you want source information for
what a histogram actually is,
you can go ahead and
just go to this link, URL,
it's the Wikipedia link for histogram.
If you're a little fuzzy on your stats,
you can go ahead and just check it out.
And this will give you all the information
you need to know about histograms.
So I'll assume for the rest of this
lecture that if you felt unfamiliar with
histograms that you can read
about it on the Wikipedia page.
Otherwise, I will continue.
They're pretty straightforward things,
so let's go ahead and
create a random normal
distribution data set.
So I'm gonna say dataset1 = randn.
And we'll have 100 data points there.
And now I'm gonna plot
a histogram of that data set.
In order to do that,
all I gotta do is plt.hist so
I'm using matplotlib.pyplot, and
I'm calling the hist method on it.
And I'm going to input my data
set to get that histogram.
Okay, and there we have it.
So, if you notice, it has one,
two, three, four, five six,
seven, eight, nine, ten bins.
So ten bins is the default number
of bins that plt.hist will create.
So it's gonna separate all your data,
no matter how many points you have,
into ten equally spaced bins.
All right, great.
So let's go ahead and
make another data set.
We'll call this dataset2.
And we'll have this one only be 80 points,
and
we'll also plot a histogram of it,
hist and we'll say dataset2.
In this case,
I want the color to be red and
I want it to be a particular shade of
red so I can pass the color argument.
And there's a color called indianred,
and I will choose that.
So let's go ahead and check that plot.
Okay, so there's that histogram.
And it's now the Indian red color.
So what if I wanted to see both
these histograms on the same plot?
I can totally do that.
So what I can do for
that is say plt.hist dataset1.
And since they both have different numbers
of data points, so this is 80 data
points and dataset1 is 100 data points.
I have to normalize my plots, so
I can do that by saying passing
the argument normed=True.
I'll set dataset1 to have
the color indianred this time.
And since I'm going to be plotting
them right on top of each other,
I'm going to want some transparency there.
So to control transparency, the argument
is alpha so if I set my alpha=0.5,
you can set your transparency from 0 to 1,
so 0.5 is that transparency level.
So you'll be able to
see in a sense through
the histograms even though
they're on the same plot.
And you'll see what that
looks like in a second.
And let's get some more bins.
And I can get more bins.
The default is ten, but
I'm just gonna double that.
I'll set bins=20.
So that's another argument we can do.
And then in the same cell I'm gonna say
plt.hist, and I'm gonna plot dataset2, I'm
gonna set the normalization equal to true,
so they're both normalized.
I won't worry about the color,
I'll just have it use its
default blue color for dataset2.
But again, I will set it to have some
sort of transparency using alpha, and
I will also make that second
data set have 20 bins.
All right, so
let's go see what this looks like.
And there you have it.
So we have the two histograms now plotted,
and they're stacked on top of each other.
And where they overlap,
since we set alpha=0.5,
there's a little bit of transparency there
and you can see that it creates a purple
color automatically where
the histograms go over each other.
Great, so now let's learn how to do
something similar with Seaborn and
try to get some more
information out of this.
So I'm gonna make two more data sets.
I'll say data1 = randn, and let's get
a ton of points, so let's say 1000 points,
and we'll do the same for data2,
we'll have that equal 1000 points.
Let's go ahead and do that.
Great, so
now I have these two very large data sets.
So I can represent this as a joint
distribution using joint plots.
So the way we do this is we call Seaborn,
sns., and
then we can call the method jointplot.
And what I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna input my two data sets.
I'm going to say data1, data2.
And let's see what that looks like.
Great, so now we actually have
a joint plot of both data sets.
So you can see a distribution of dataset1
and the distribution of dataset2.
It gives you your p value,
and then it individually plots all
the data points and where they overlap.
So we can also do this if you don't
want to see all these points,
you can use hex bins for
a more concise picture.
So let's go ahead and see how that works,
so sns.jointplot again.
Again, we're gonna put both data sets.
I'm gonna say data1, data2.
And now I can pass the argument kind and
set that equal to hex to get a hex
plot in the joint distribution.
There we go.
And so that will be a little
easier to read, and will
give you a little more visual information
than just all these points themselves.
All right, great.
So that's the basics of histograms.
If you just want to get
a run-of-the-mill histogram,
all you gotta do is say plt.hist,
input your data set, and
you can check the documentation for pyplot
if you wanna know more arguments to pass.
There's colors.
Remember to do normed
if you want different
data sets with different number
of points on the same plot.
And then you can do joint plots with
histograms on them using sns.jointplot and
you just pass both your data sets there.
And if you want hex bin on this jointplot
you just say the kind and pass hex.
Okay, great.
Next we'll learn how to use
kernel estimation plots.
I'll see you